On the latest Masters in Business
podcast, I sit down with Paul Ziemba.
He's chief investment officer at JP
Morgan's alternative asset management.
He co-founded this group back in 1994
with essentially pocket change. It now
runs over $35 billion
in assets for institutions and high net
worth investors
at JP Morgan. Really just a fascinating
concept of everything about how to stand
up a division within a large company,
how to think about alternatives, how to
recognize when an industry may be
average, but the best players in that
industry generate significant alpha. I
thought this was fascinating and I think
you will also. With no further ado, JP
Morgan's Paul Ziemba.
Paul Ziemba, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thanks for having me. Great to be here.
>> I'm so excited about this because I I
just fell in love with your 30 pearls of
wisdom. We'll get to that later. Let
Let's start with your background. Sure.
>> Bachelor's from SUNY Albany and then an
MBA from New York University. What was
the original career plan?
Sure. So, yeah, when I was young, I was
always into always into investments or
at least intrigued by investments, but
also into technology as well. Like
arguably my to to the extent we have a
gift in life, it was probably
technology. But the technology was so
early stage, I I didn't exactly know
what it what it was. So, I wound up
I wound up pursuing obviously investment
side, but kind of use that technology
from time to time, especially as we were
we were building a group. But originally
I really wanted to get into into equity
research. And And not that I knew
exactly what it was, but it was the most
like tangible and aligned with who I am
in terms of
you know, problem-solving and analytics
and and things like that. And wound up
instead falling into the the hedge fund
world and doing what I do today as hedge
fund solutions, which actually has a lot
of elements in in a sense of
what equity research is. Again, you
know, you're you're you're
problem-solving at at at its core and
doing analytical work. You you get the
Chartered Financial Analyst designation
and you start at Chase as an analyst.
What sort of work were you doing there?
Yeah, so out of out of school I was in a
pension fund consulting group. And so
really what you're doing is a couple of
things. Um I mean one performance
measurement across client accounts. Um
and you know, also you're doing some um
some research uh stock um rather manager
selection on a traditional side. But I
think what was helpful about it is it
kind of gave you a really good purview
of all different asset classes and all
different styles of management. And I
remember in the early days really
appreciating like the the importance of
stylistic differences in equities as an
example. Um this was again early days,
but like recognizing, you know, small
cap world versus small cap value and the
drastic differences. But it really it
really just set the stage to understand
the industry uh and styles and types and
approaches at a at a much deeper level.
So you were a manager of retirement
plans at the Interpublic Group. Tell us
a little bit about that.
>> Yeah, so after Chase I spent about 2
years at at Chase and then went to the
Interpublic Group. So this is a a plan
sponsor and maybe a somewhat unusual
move at that stage in my career.
And what attracted me to it was they
they were at a point where they were So
again, this this is an advertising
agency, but I worked in the pension fund
group. And they were they were looking
to revise their asset allocation
materially. So, you know, change the
whole asset allocation, change the
manager lineup. And importantly, they
they didn't have a consultant. So they
were doing it in-house. So they were
affording me, I mean not solely, but
affording me a lot of responsibility to
help restructure the whole plan,
terminate managers, onboard managers,
>> What year was that?
So, that was 1992
to 1994. And interesting
>> I'm curious, what led them to say, "Hey,
we're just going to start over?"
>> I mean, that was before Yeah, I mean,
that was a kind of decision I'd had
already been made, you know, and they
they were changing um you know, again,
changing their asset allocation and and
looking at the whole manager
holistically. And interestingly, that's
when I first got involved in hedge funds
or at least first met hedge funds. So,
this is again, you know, early days,
right? 1992
>> Everybody was producing alpha back then,
right?
>> Well, then Yeah, I mean, then it was
That's true, but it was so unknown, you
know. So, I we I met with a number of
kind of market neutral equity managers,
uh a couple long short managers, and
then and then importantly, um David
Askin. So, if you know David Askin, for
those that don't know,
was one of the really the first hedge
fund, for lack of a better word,
blow-ups, where it was a mortgage-backed
derivative manager. Um
and um you know, obviously a
a quirky-ish market and and and wound up
having significant problems. So, it was
you know, we did not invest with him,
Mhm. but it was really a a very, you
know, valuable early kind of lesson from
a due diligence standpoint that, you
know, obviously we didn't pay for, so
all all all the better.
But it it really like I don't may maybe
tells you two things. I mean, one, if
you don't completely understand
something, and admittedly at age 24, I I
didn't at the time. Um then,
you know, Stay away.
>> Don't put money there. And and and just
have the courage to say to say no, you
know, there's there's a lot of choices
out there, and you need to be
disciplined and and walk away. Um but we
did invest in equity market neutral
fund. And again, that was 1993. Mhm. So,
that's the initial exposure to hedge
funds. How did you um go from there uh
to JP Morgan?
Yeah, so this is probably another um
you know never burn your bridges which
which I'll I'll I'll come to. So,
I had I had as I mentioned I'd worked at
Chase once before and at the time I was
looking to leave because once you
restructure the plan there's only so
much to to do and especially when you
when you're young. So, I was ready you
know I was ready for to to do something
>> You you literally put yourself out of a
job through the restructuring process.
Well, I mean I could have stayed but
then you're just you know you're just
overseeing the investments as opposed to
more actively is a little less
interesting. Um
and
so any any case I was interviewing at a
Hedge Fund Solutions a fund of funds out
of Long Island and you know really liked
the guys couple of great guys that were
there but at the end of the day I I
decided I didn't want to go
you know I didn't want to reverse
commute cuz I was living in the city and
wanted to go out to Long Island. So, I
wound up not pursuing it but the
relevance of that is that what would
become my my boss Joel Katzman
was distributing that that fund of funds
and he was at Chase.
So, when it came time to do a a
reference check on me they asked Joel to
do a reference check on me because he
was at Chase I used to work at Chase and
the reference check I assume was good
but it turned out I didn't pursue it any
further and Joel who was distributing
the fund of funds at the time got the
idea of you know what rather than
distributing it maybe we should start
this up anew and if you want to work in
the city why don't you come work for me?
So, you're at Chase which even back in
the early 90s is still a very large
bank. This seems very entrepreneurial
very startup like. What was it like
building this division inside a giant
money center bank? Yeah, no it was
great.
You know I mean you know bear bear in
mind it was a different world back then
in many ways not only from an investment
standpoint but like what it takes to
launch a new business. So, yeah we we
launched with a whopping $7.4 million.
Um which is, you know, which is unusual
to say the to say the least.
>> Walking around, pocket money. And and
I'd say, yeah, maybe a a couple of it.
So, like from an investment standpoint,
it was the perfect time to start. You
had you know, Orange County issues. You
had you had rates going up. You had
Well, David Askin as I mentioned before.
You had dislocation and that created
opportunities. The problem was
you know, not many people knew about
hedge funds and I'd say three quarters
of the people that did had a negative
view. Oh, really? Even in the early
Yeah, but my bias is that
the golden era of hedge funds was from
the early '90s right up to the financial
crisis. There's been far more
challenging period post-financial crisis
for alpha generating. The '90s, it
seemed like everybody was making money.
>> Well,
so two things. I mean, maybe we'll get
to those points later about about
different different cycles, but again,
from an investment standpoint, there
were people were making money. There's
no question about it. I think the
public's view Mhm. and partially like
what had often been written in in in the
press was the negative side of of hedge,
you know, hedge funds going after this
currency or that currency and I think
the perception was one of
you know, I either it was negative or
just a lack of understanding. So, a lot
of what we did early days was just
educational. Like we would write
newsletters internally and educate
people on alternatives. Um
but eventually, um you know, eventually
you put it together and performance kind
of speaks for itself and you you know,
you build it you build it over time. But
it was great. From an entrepreneur
entrepreneurial standpoint, this kind of
goes back to my tech side as well.
I mean, one building infrastructure
broadly and process.
But, you know, early days building
technology as well. Like there was no
per track which is a something people
use like so, you know, we
and I kind of built it all, you know, so
built a research database, built a
built a a system to analyze returns. And
yeah, that was
that was great. It was a lot of a lot of
fun. So today it looks like the industry
is much better known.
There's been a giant movement to try try
and democratize
access to all sorts of alternatives from
hedge funds to private credit, private
equity,
real assets.
What do you think led to this massive
interest in alternatives? It's not like
it's been a terrible equity market for
the past 15 years. It's been great. So
yeah, two things I mean I'd say
even let's go back early days. Like part
of the vision this is really Jules'
vision first and foremost that was that
alternatives were going to become
mainstream, which you know, sitting back
and hedge funds were going to become
mainstream eventually. And you know,
back in 1994 that was a novel concept,
you know, it was just this little thing
off to the side. And and look, we've
more or less kind of arrived at that,
right? So I think the vision is true.
And then the second part is well, why
not retail investors, right? And
if you think about 2022
and you think about rising stock bond
correlations,
you know, there's so many investors,
many of them more retail oriented or or
you know, high net worth oriented that
just don't have alternatives or enough
alternatives in their portfolios.
So they have that's led to the
democratization and you know, launching
of interval funds and and and tender
offer funds,
which is I think really interesting. So
it's giving those investors access to
alternatives, which are really valuable
in overall portfolio context. So it's
it's about building Yeah, I mean yeah,
just just to respond like sure equity
markets are going up today, but they
didn't in 2022, and I think the takeaway
is that you need to build a more
resilient portfolio rather than just
look at these things in isolation.
>> So, you start with barely $7 million.
Today, you have over $35 billion that
you're directly overseeing. J.P. Morgan
Chase is giant with trillions of
dollars. It sounds like there's a whole
lot more headroom for alternatives at
J.P. Morgan to continue growing. Like,
where do you see this going?
Yeah, I mean, you know, alternatives are
are definitely the fastest-growing or
one of the fastest-growing areas within
and not not just hedge funds, but more
broadly, and there's a tremendous amount
of support for it.
So, uh yeah, I like I I think, you know,
for us and for other alternatives, we're
going to, you know, continue to build,
continue to launch new product, continue
to, um, you know, get get a larger reach
into, um, in you know, in into other
client types and and and geographies. Uh
so, yeah, the future is extremely
exciting. So, I mentioned earlier, um,
30 pearls of wisdom for 30 years. I want
to dive into that in a moment. I have to
start with one quote that kind of caught
my eye.
Um, and we talk about this all the time.
Culture is king. The road to failure is
paved with poor cultures. Explain what
led you to that conclusion.
Well, experience. I mean, you you
I don't know. I mean, hedge funds fail
for and as succeed for for different
reasons, but culture is definitely at
the heart of many of it, and I'd say
more importantly, like sometimes people
ask, "What are you know, what what's
like what do you think about most as as
your takeaway having been doing over 30
years?" Like, for for us, it's for me,
it's culture. Like, the culture we've
built as an organization has been
spectacular and clearly a
differentiator.
>> Is that what's kept you at J.P. Morgan
Chase for 30 years? That's kind of rare
these days. Most people don't stay at
one shop almost their entire career.
Yeah, it's a it's a couple things. I
mean culture and and the team, you know,
it's like a family for sure and we we
make each other better. We challenge
each other respectfully. We
we really enjoy each other's company and
and appreciate our our differences. Uh
So, yeah, that that's been that's been
great. Uh leadership of Jamie is is
unparalleled.
>> Who else so that
>> Jamie uh Jamie Dimon?
>> Oh, I've heard of him.
Remind me to tell you a funny story
about him later. Um and and then lastly
like you know, the the job itself allows
you obviously to meet with some of the
you know, best investment minds in the
world, right? Which is just such a
privilege and then
to be able to like dig in deep on so
many different asset classes, so many
different geographies. You're you're
constantly learning. So, those those
three things for sure. I mentioned
you're not exactly very public facing.
You're a little below the radar.
Um but you publish these really
interesting things and one of my
favorite pieces you wrote was 30 pearls
of wisdom from our last 30 years. We we
don't have time to go through all 30,
but I picked a few
um that they're just so simple and yet
so insightful and we tend to overlook
things like this.
Uh this one just jumped out. Don't buy
the portfolio, buy the process. Stories
change, positions are fleeting, but a
robust investment process should endure.
Yeah. Like that just sums up so much in
in two sentences. Tell us about that.
Yeah, I know. It's definitely one of my
favorites as well. I I I mean it applies
to like all different types of hedge
funds, but I'd say especially
discretionary macro, right? So, you're
interviewing a macro managers. The the
majority of them are very smart. Um they
tell a very good story. They have great
views, but it doesn't necessarily mean
they're a money maker, right? And and
again, I think sometimes people make the
mistake of agreeing with the view,
agreeing with a manager, getting, you
know, seduced by someone having insight.
And I obviously it's really important,
but again, it doesn't necessarily speak
to the process. And especially in
something like discretionary macro,
where it's it's not a high sharp
strategy. It tends to be more volatile
strategy. And if you don't develop that
conviction, and again, first and
foremost in the process, you can get
shaken from,
you know, from that idea, right? The
ideas change, uh the process should
endure. So, really really really
important, for sure. Um have the courage
to make mistakes, mitigate unnecessary
risk, but take calculated bets. Again,
two simple sentences, so much involved
in that.
>> Yeah. Uh I find a lot of people in our
business don't like to admit mistakes.
Yeah, I think it's it's um
it it's something not not the admitting
mistakes so much, but the the the
courage to make mistakes. When I think
about
>> risk, a calculated risk. When I think
about like things that I've done better
over the years, that is definitely one
of them that comes to mind, where I I've
given myself more freedom to to to make
mistakes, and to maybe size and lean
into themes, um or or high conviction
managers to a greater degree, as well.
Um where I think, you know, I maybe
there's a perfectionist in many of them
many of us,
and sometimes the flip side of that, or
the problem with that, is you become too
conservative, right? So, now, yeah, if
you make a mistake, you need to you need
to figure it out quickly and and change
course, but uh allowing yourself to
maybe make mistakes is is is definitely
helpful. Hm.
I I really like this. Don't be afraid to
run into fire. Some of the greatest
investment opportunities and manager
access are sourced during dislocation.
Tell us about running into fires.
Yeah, so this
um
you know, is is obviously really
important. Like I I I love behavioral
issues and behavioral finance and and
and like the challenges that come to
that. Of course, we're all wired
you know, inappropriately from an
investment standpoint and that where,
you know, we're wired to avoid avoid
pain,
which is why many people make the wrong
decisions during, you know, periods of
crisis or periods of heightened
volatility. I think some managers do a
great job. Um
you know, I I wrote it about, you know,
I guess the manager I had in mind was
David Tepper. Um
you know, I I think Runs into fires all
the time. You know, yeah, I mean, it's
kind of like, you know, less so these
days, but certainly certainly over his
over He moved to Florida, kind of
chilled out a little bit. But he I you
know, like he he always again, having
watched things play out over 30 years, I
always thought he he did you know, he's
done a really good job. But And again,
like this is something I think we've
done a better job at over time as well.
When I think about, you know, the crisis
is, you know, 1998, 2008, 2020,
like you know, as I say, many of these
things rhyme and you've seen it before.
Like, you know, you you know what it
feels like kind of coming out of it and
going in and if you're playing the
appropriate defense, like you should
afford yourself the opportunity to
really lean into where you think there
is dislocation, especially more
technical oriented dislocation. So,
yeah, it's it's critically important. I
mean, that's the way you make outsized
returns
during those inflection points. So,
let's talk about outsized returns.
Success can be a dangerous achievement.
Complacency, distractions, and
misalignments can be silent killers.
Yeah, so
um I guess you could come at that one
from a a couple of different ways, but
one of one of which is the most
important is like when you find success,
sometimes people, you know, the the firm
grows, the number of analysts grow, the
complexity of the business grows, and
the portfolio manager, you know, goes
from managing portfolios to managing
people.
And you know, like I've seen that movie
so many times. Like they Maybe they have
that skill set, maybe they don't. And
maybe they don't. And I And that's
probably not what you want them to spend
their time, you know? So, I think like
if you think about the hedge fund
graveyard and like what the issues have
been over this Like that there's a
big area that kind of has that that
footprint, if if you will. So, yeah,
people, you know, the star portfolio
portfolio manager is no longer spending
the appropriate time on a portfolio,
managing people, getting distracted. Or
the second piece of it is just, quite
frankly, making too much money, right?
So,
you know, when when they when they've
bought the third yacht, I was about to
say. That the I It's time to leave, you
know? It's probably time to leave after
the after before the first yacht, but
The first time I heard that has to be
like 20, 25 years ago, "Hey, when your
fund manager buys a 40-ft or a 50-ft
boat, it's time to move on."
Yeah, I mean, it it's more than app, but
yes, you have to you have to watch the
personal lifestyle at times as well and
make sure people are focused. Now, you
know, there are people that that are
billionaires and they're still in the
office 70 hours a week, right? But And
it's it's just innate. They don't They
couldn't do anything but that. Um But
yeah, you have to, you know, you have to
understand what what the am I buying?
Um And And maybe it changes, right? So,
maybe that star portfolio manager has
built that enough of a team and you're
not buying anyone singularly. You're
buying something broader and that's
probably what you mentioned earlier.
But um But yeah, it's it's it's a risk,
for sure. And it's And it's an area
where many of successful hedge funds
have kind of either become, you know,
potentially mediocre or have challenges
because they've taken their eye off the
ball in one way or another.
>> Huh, really really interesting. I love
this one. The opposite of long isn't
short. Great short sellers are wired
differently. Don't expect success on the
long side to necessarily translate to a
successful short book. First, I love the
quote. Second,
are there really any short sellers left?
I think this last run feels like it they
steamrolled over everybody.
>> So, yeah, maybe a couple things. So, I
mean just on the quote itself, I have to
like of all the lessons since learned
and all the mistakes we've seen people
make, that that one
has probably right at the top or
certainly right toward the top. Like the
the opposite of a long is definitely not
a short, and you know, sometimes people
will will suggest it is. I mean, the
math is different, risk management is
different, it like the the timing is
different. You like I would even say
like successful shorting is about risk
management first and stock picking
second. And you see that. I mean, you've
seen that when he, you know, 1999 when
the internet is blown is, you know, go
nuts. You see that in the meme stocks.
You see that today with quantum
computing and some of the AI names.
Again, it's risk management first, stock
picking second. Um timing is critically
timing and sizing is just critically
critically important. Um Go ahead. I was
going to say I have a buddy who used to
run a hedge fund trading desk, and he
always used to say the opposite of love
isn't hate. The opposite of love isn't
difference. There you go.
>> And it it's the same basic and he was
talking about um stocks, but it's the
same sort of thing. They're not mirror
images, are they? No, definitely not.
>> Are there any short sellers around? I
know like 130/30's have become popular.
>> Yeah, they are. And a lot of quants
approach it that way.
>> So, maybe there's two, you know, two
different aspects of it. So, there there
are successful and and good short
sellers out there. I'd say there are
there are, you know, less that are
dedicated short sellers. So, from 1995
to 2008, we used dedicated short sellers
and short bias managers and it was
really interesting and actually a
tremendous source of overall alpha.
Um after 2008, we no longer used
dedicated short sellers and short bias
managers. So, I I don't follow the space
nearly as much.
Um but there are, you know, there were
there are certainly good ones within
long short equities. Um you know, maybe
you know, I'm sure there are someone on
a standalone basis. It's a It's a very
difficult business model.
>> Tough gig. One of the interesting things
in short selling, which I think people
don't, you know, I don't know. I've
never heard it spoken about before,
is
you know, this again, this is dated, but
the when you when you looked at again,
let's say pre-2008, where there were
probably
I don't know. I don't know. There's a
you know, a certainly a few dozen
dedicated short sellers and short bias
managers.
I want to say like 40% of them were
women.
Really?
>> Which which people don't
>> That's fascinating.
>> so Charlotte You, Stephanie Ross, Dina
Galante, like all these, you know, very
successful short sellers.
And in an industry that was more male
dominated, it always struck me as just
really interesting
that in that segment, that it you know,
an overwhelming amount, at least on a
percentage basis, maybe you know, maybe
it wasn't greater than 50%, but like But
compared to the rest of the industry, it
was outsized.
>> it was outsized, you know, it's just
it's just interesting.
>> There have been a number of academic
studies that say female fund managers
outperform their male counterparts by
anywhere between 50 and 100 basis points
and it's always, you know, the joke is
testosterone poisoning. But it's
fascinating to hear. I'm I'm curious as
to why female short sellers,
um
is is it uh objectivity? Is it just a
different approach? It's kind of really
intriguing. Yeah.
Um well, my wife would probably say it's
it's it's because they don't have the
egos of the men.
>> Right, right.
>> That's the poison. It's absolutely. If
it doesn't work out, they cover it and
move on. Yeah, I you know, I think
there's probably some you know, of of
course there's great examples of both,
but you know, again, risk management and
discipline is definitely
is definitely the key to successful
short selling. So, let's There has to be
something about
>> Let's let's go with another bullet point
that speaks directly to that. I love
this one. Avoid casinos. Black isn't on
a roll and red isn't due. Very few
managers add value over time through
timing the market, even if it sometimes
look like looks like it. Don't reward a
manager for gambling.
>> Yeah. Again, so much insight in two
sentences. Explain how you reached this
conclusion, which I just think is
brilliant. Yeah, so I I give credit to
Chris Marshall and his team. He I think
he he's the one that came up with that
quote.
But
it really again is the observation that
the vast majority of managers are are
you know,
let's just take long short equity
managers. You know, the vast majority of
of them are good stock pickers, but bad
portfolio managers. And
Two different skills. Two different
skills.
>> And timing decisions, you know, the vast
majority of managers are are are
subtracting value
from their portfolio managers.
>> Really? The vast You're going to say top
quartile, top decile? Where where's the
alpha coming from?
>> I mean, the alpha's coming from Like if
if you look at Let's put it this way. If
you look at fundamental long short
equities that live within the pods and
you look at alpha generation with them
on on you know, a turn of leverage or
whatever you want to say. And then you
look at the stand-alone long short
universe and the alpha that's generated
there,
there's a disconnect, right? And it's
not because they're not good stock
pickers. The disconnect, I I think, is
because the portfolio manage you know,
bad portfolio management or sub-par
portfolio management is subtracting
value from their stock picking. So,
maybe they were adding, you know, 5% of
alpha in the stock picking and it's
decaying that by
3% from
from portfolio management decisions. And
I just think it's it's difficult and
you know, there there's been tremendous
factor moves in the last number of
years. There's also issues when you're
operating on a standalone basis like
there's business considerations rightly
or wrongly, right? So, if someone's
operating in a 10 vol
and markets are going down and they're,
you know, in the hole by 8%. Now, are
they acting differently from a point,
you know, they should be buying a lot
more cuz the markets are down and things
look interesting, but are they? Are
they, you know, are they playing scared?
>> They're playing scared, you know? And I
I think it's Again, it's not it's not
everybody, uh, for sure. And there's
some that do it well. I just think it is
very challenging to do. You know, it's
it's much easier to find
good stock pickers that are adding alpha
than it is for someone to
consistently be able to make, you know,
I don't know, contrarian or or correct,
uh, portfolio management decisions.
>> the old joke is the crowd is right most
of the time. So, if you're if you're
constantly fighting the crowd, you're on
the wrong side of the track.
>> Yeah. There you go. Last one and again,
another another brilliant one. Dinosaurs
go extinct, innovation must be constant.
Yeah, and this is for, you know, this is
for hedge funds as well as us. And you
know, and part of it relates to the
manager themselves, part of it relates
to strategies and again, part of part of
it is business model, but when I think
about, you know, I think about
strategies that we used to invest in in
1995 where you can make a lot of money.
Like say like merger arbitrage, you
know, like merger arbitrage again, you
could you could make double-digit
returns, it was less competitive,
Plus, you need mergers. And you well,
yeah, that that that helps for sure. But
now, like the strategy, I mean, there
are some very successful people that do
it on a standalone basis. Usually, they
do with credit or other advance, but
like it's a much more difficult place to
make money. It's It's become largely
commoditized. When it becomes
interesting, there's a swarm of money
that will kind of go into it, right?
>> Isn't that true for every style of
investor?
>> eventually, which is why you need to
innovate. You need to, you know, So,
let's take, you know, like machine
learning quant, right? Like machine
learning quant, starting investing 10
years ago, like that was novel. And And,
you know, today it's
obviously gaining a lot more momentum.
People understand it more, but you have
to kind of continue to reinvent
um like from our perspective, need to
continue to do look after different
strategies, different types of managers
um to find kind of high alpha. And then
from a manager standpoint, again, let's
think about quant, again,
um the managers need to re- reinvent
themselves
um and refine themselves from an alpha
standpoint. So, like alpha's decay.
Um you know, yesterday's alpha's
tomorrow's
beta, right?
>> Mhm. And uh you know, a lot of what has
made them successful from an alpha
standpoint is going to decay. So, if you
don't, you know, maybe it's 15, 20% is
going to decay and and be irrelevant
each year. So, you need to constantly
kind of reinvent yourself.
>> So, so when you start putting together
the next 30 over the next 30 years,
yesterday's alpha is tomorrow's beta.
That That's number 31 for
>> There There you go. That's right. So,
let's talk about what's going on today.
Um hedge funds have had to adapt to a
very challenging era, certainly since
the financial crisis. Uh I I've heard
financial repression and all sorts of um
reasons for why some funds have been
underperforming, less volatility,
increased dispersion in equity returns.
What's going on in the world of of hedge
funds today. So,
yeah, the the last 5 years especially
have been a great time for for hedge
funds. So, let me let me let me maybe
frame it. Um and actually we just came
out with a paper called hedge funds in
the end of the alpha winter. And I I
should do a shout-out for Emmy Hodges
who did a a great job on on on putting
the piece together.
But maybe just taking a step back. There
there were we identify kind of three big
picture variables that really drive
excess return in hedge funds. Mhm. So,
one of them is volatility. Everything
else equal, you want vol higher. That
creates dislocation, sloppy trading, you
know, it's kind of
>> Opportunity. opportunity. It's the fuel
the fuel of what drives alpha, right?
The second is dispersion. Um so, equity
dispersion for first and foremost, but
wider dispersion as well. So, more
winners and losers, you know, obviously
if you're a stock picker, that's
helpful. Um and the third is is rates
being higher than 2%.
And higher rates help in a number of
ways, but both kind of mechanically, if
you obviously if you have floating rate
debt, it's helpful higher rates.
Um but also again, we've seen this like
in a period of rising inflation where
rates are going higher, that's going to
fuel increase volatility. So, it's a
little circular, right? But
elevated volatility or at least normal
volatility, uh elevated dispersion, and
rates that are greater than 2%. When you
have those three elements, so even two
of those three variables kind of as a as
a tailwind rather than a headwind,
alpha generation is really really
strong. So, what we've done is like we
looked at
um three different periods.
The first uh starting with with
2000-ish.
Kind of a 10-year period.
Um
you know, I forgot the exact percentage,
but like a large percentage of the time
two of those three variables were were
actually back. They were helpful. And
you saw excess return that was very very
high.
The middle period, which is the alpha
winter, 2010s, is that what we're
talking about essentially? Yeah, to uh
to 2010, right? The middle period, this
is I think you know nine-ish or you know
eight nine year period, which admittedly
is quite long, was one that where you
saw a lot of central bank intervention,
where those variables were generally,
you know, depressed. You could think
about 2017, realized volatility being
really low. Obviously, we had rates at
zero for a chunk of that period as well.
That was difficult to generate alpha,
not only for hedge funds, but broadly.
And that's kind of the alpha winter. We
would suggest that that period is
abnormal. And you know, even if rates go
down, even if volatility comes down,
like you're not not likely to go back to
a period that's so dominated by that
period of central bank intervention.
And you know, most importantly, the
postscript to that is for the last
five-ish years,
you've gone back to kind of the good old
days of alpha generation, right? So last
five years, you've had volatility that's
you know, generally normal or or higher,
dispersion that's really high, and rates
that are are accommodative as well. And
excess return and alpha has resumed and
looks very much like what it looked like
20 years ago versus that kind of middle
alpha winter period. So so the past five
years have been really interesting.
2022, obviously, stocks and bonds down
double digits. That seems to happen once
every 40 years or so. Yep. What What
about 2025? What sort of role is
deglobalization and shifting trade
policies
playing in shaping hedge fund returns?
Yeah, I mean,
well, obviously, you have a lot of
different so you know, it's a lot of
different strategies, a lot of different
substrategies. So it's very difficult to
talk about the whole hedge fund industry
as as as one thing. But like when I
think about excess return, you know, all
the things that you mentioned are
generally good for hedge funds, right?
So the rest of the world is getting
worried, like that is again the fuel of
what drives hedge hedge fund returns,
right? So, when you see
when you see
you know, rising rising ball and that's
that's going to be good from Cisco
arbitrage. It's going to be good
generally for balance stock pickers.
It's going to be good for discretionary
macro managers when you see
deglobalization and some of the trends
that come out of that whether it's
onshoring, whether you see some of the
moves in
you know, in
gold and like that that's good from a
trend following standpoint. It's good
for discretionary macro managers. When
you see Japan right
increasing rates, the US decreasing
rates
that's hopeful because it's two bets
discretionary macro managers can place.
It's not just like everyone operating in
the same way.
So, those things are are good. I mean,
generally because it gives people more
of a pallet to you know, an alpha pallet
to which to choose from.
Place more bets, diversify more.
And also heightened volatility and
heightened uncertainty is going to be
positive for the vast majority of
strategies, especially from a excess
return alpha standpoint. So, you
mentioned Japan. I'm curious what
regions around the world are attracting
the most new capital. We've seen Europe
suddenly catch a bid. Obviously, Japan
has been doing well. The rest of Asia,
the Middle East and even the US. What
what areas are attracting new capital
and what's driving that trend?
>> Yeah, I mean the thing one of the areas
that we're most excited about for sure
and have been leaning in for the last 3
years is Japanese corporate governance.
Now, interestingly, if you look at
dollar flows into Japan, it's actually
not I mean, it is positive, but it's
kind of modest in the grand scheme of
things, which kind of shocks me
honestly. And like I I don't I don't
mind because we're playing events first
and foremost.
But you really haven't seen that many
dollar flows in, which again is unusual
given like everyone in the world and in
every way, shape or form is probably
underway Japan and it's and it's
obviously inexpensive, but most
importantly you have a material dramatic
catalyst that's driving value through
through Japan. Um
and yeah, we're excited about it. I mean
corporate corporate governance has been
talked about in Japan for decades. The
reality is until you know, Abe had his
third arrow and you you've you know,
which really set off a lot a number of
regulatory and policy changes
and and importantly like crap cross
shareholder relationships
started to unwind that really set the
stage for increased corporate
governance. So it it's you know, we we
again we've been there for 3 years. I
think we're maybe halfway through what
needs to be done and and there's still a
very very fertile opportunity set. So
that's
that that's one. The other thing I would
point out is just the Middle East. Now
obviously
you know, it's not it's not to say that
there's a lot of money from an
investment standpoint going into the
Middle East, but
I just come back from a
you know, week-long trip in the Middle
East and you know, got there maybe 18
months prior and it's really exciting
what's going on. I mean clearly there's
a lot of interest from an investment
standpoint in hedge funds and
alternatives in the Middle East. There's
no question about it.
>> because all the sovereign wealth funds
located in um Qatar and and Arab
Emirates and go down the list? It's
coming it's certainly coming from from
them, but it's broader it's broader as
well. I mean it's it's family office
money in in addition to the the
sovereigns and and they're interested in
alternatives. They're interested in
hedge funds.
>> Local family office or European American
family office All all all of the above,
you know, I mean there's also been which
is a
maybe to tie together one other part. I
mean there's also been a lot of movement
of people of of hedge funds setting up
businesses in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and
people moving there with wealth and in
turn they become you know, potential
investors in alternatives. So
uh
uh definitely a prominent story as well,
the number of people that are setting up
in in in in the region or opening up
offices. So, when when we used to talk
about New York, London, Tokyo, Hong Kong
as centers, do you put Abu Dhabi or
Dubai in that list as It's you know, for
the larger for the larger hedge funds,
for sure. I think it's becoming, you
know, the the vast majority of them are
opening offices or have offices in the
region, so it is definitely an area that
is attracting a lot of a lot of
interest. Um and then from an investment
standpoint, you know, again, it's a much
smaller market, but there I think the
you know, the the uh policy changes and
regulatory changes which allow foreign
ownership and a derivatives market
starting is encouraging as well. It's
early days, and again, it's not, you
know, the breadth and depth of the
market still needs to improve, but um
again, it's exciting from that
standpoint as well. Really kind of
intriguing. Um what are hedge funds
thinking about with assets like crypto
or gold? How are they dealing with what
are some of the biggest winners past
couple of years? So, you you've seen, I
mean, on on gold and and precious metal,
I mean, discretionary macro managers
have um you know, many have had that bet
on. It's been a very successful bet and
theme um given,
you know, concerns on uh in inflation
and debt levels. Um so, you know, you
can you continue to see that that theme
in people's portfolios.
Crypto's a little more, you know,
interesting and and specific. Uh some
managers, again, mostly discretionary
macro managers have invested in crypto,
mostly, you know, mostly Bit- Bitcoin or
ETH,
more from that inflationary,
you know, debt standpoint.
Um although others have from other
standpoint as well, from the you know,
from like a trend following standpoint
on futures, people have done it. Um
a bit on statistical arbitrage side,
some people play it like a cash future
standpoint, from an arb uh standpoint as
well. But it it's still small, at least
let's say the traditional hedge funds
investing in crypto, it it's still
small. That being said, obviously you
have a large number of like dedicated
crypto funds Mhm. that are trading both
directionally as well as as as well as
on the arb side as well. So, what styles
and hedge fund worlds are doing well in
2025? I've noticed over the past few
years emerging managers have made some
consistent gains. Quants have done well,
some of the multi-strats have done well.
What what are you seeing in in the rest
of the field, some of which even in this
high-volatility, high-alpha market have
been struggling?
Yeah, I'd say so we we look at Pivotal
Path as uh
the you know, their indices first and
foremost. I think it's they're the
they're uh very very good quality
indices and I think paints a very good
picture.
And that's kind of what I have in mind.
So, like when you when you look at it,
um you'd find that most strategies and
sub-strategies have done pretty well
this year in the grand scheme of things.
You know, the one exception to that is
is CTAs, which have struggled um Even
with gold running away and CTAs got hurt
in in April, um where they were very
very long equities and yet, you know,
liberation day and you know, the markets
correct uh a lot. So, you you saw you
know, a bit of a a retrenchment in in
CTAs performance in April. Like it got
hit pretty hard and they've been trying
to like piece it together um
and they and they have the last couple
months have been have been stronger. To
be fair, it's very challenging to follow
a trend when the trend is dependent on
the whims of one person. That that is
true, for sure.
>> show up But the good news is most other
strategies are actually doing are doing
quite well, right? So, if you look at
across relative value, as you mentioned
quant, the multi-strat pods, convertible
bond arbitrage has been uh good with
with uh strong issuance. Discretionary
macro, as we talked about some of the
themes, whether it's you know whether
it's gold or
you know or or or rates themes um has
has done well as well. Uh long short
equities has done well and you might
say, "Okay, well the markets are up, but
it's not just beta, it's alpha." So,
couple people have come up with uh you
know if if you if you look at the alpha
generation this year, it's about 5%, 5
and 1/2% in long short, which is quite
healthy. Mhm. Um
and even you know merger arbitrage
events done well, you know credit's done
fine. So, I'd say it's been a good year
overall with most strategies generating,
you know, strong kind of single mid
single digit to high single digit
returns or high single digit returns and
you know overall definitely a good year
for the industry. So, we've seen the
rise of multi-strategy managers over the
past few years and uh there have been a
number of very large multi-strats and uh
uh it seems to be a direction a lot of
funds are heading. How has that changed
competition within the industry? Are is
there more collaboration within a
multi-strategy
shop amongst all the different pods? How
how is that playing out? Uh
well, I think collaboration amongst
themselves, I think like I think there's
a pretty
>> they're not competing they're not
collaborating with the fund across the
street. It's all internal, right? I'm
sorry, collaboration for the pods pods
within or within the pods? With
collaboration within a multi-strat from,
"Hey, here's the macro, here's the long
short, here's the quant group, here's
the trend group." What are we are we
seeing
>> cross-pollination across across teams. I
think it depends on the model, you know,
like if you if you look at the pods,
obviously there's some prominent ones
out there. They they differ materially
from like strategies that they pursue,
they differ materially from the culture
that they pursue.
They they you know they they just differ
in many the risk management approaches
is different. So, it it really depends.
I I There There are some managers where
you know that where they're they are
benefiting from maybe cross-pollination,
um uh you know, across teams or a center
book that's maybe drawing upon best
ideas. Um
So, but it it's really going to differ
kind of pod to pod based on the style
and how they how they operate.
>> Fair enough. Let's talk about risk
management. There were obviously some
lessons learned this year in April and
plenty lessons learned in 2022. What do
you think are going to be the most
impactful lessons for managers looking
forward?
Looking forward.
Uh I mean, things you worry about today
is just complacency. You know, I mean,
mark anytime you have markets going up
for a
you know, for for a while, inevitably
complacency develops in some way, shape,
or form. So, we're certainly being, you
know, front-footed and and having
discussions where is that and whether
it's credit or equity markets and like
how do we or or specific areas but hedge
funds and how do we guard against that a
little bit. But I think some of the
events last year, like we're talking
about, you know, Liberation Day or maybe
the Deep Seek event and and some
managers being, you God, was Deep Seek
2025? That seems like decade years and
years ago.
>> it was, you know, so
>> No, it was. It was January this year. It
blew everybody's minds. Um
I mean, I I think it really underscores
a couple things. I mean, one, risk
management first and foremost, right?
And certainly, you know, certainly on
Liberation Day, I think a lot of people
were were caught off balance in in in
their books. Um and then again, often
times kind of re-trench after that,
locking losses. It's not a great recipe.
So, like sizing positions and sizing
risk across areas, um you know, in in
which people invest are obviously always
critically important. And then on Deep
Seek, look, AI is extremely exciting. It
It creates tremendous opportunities, but
going back to what we're were about
short selling before, it also creates
tremendous risk. Mhm. And you know, risk
of be just being one-sided bet, but also
risk of again, operating on a long short
fashion and getting thinking about like
offsetting risks and and and basis and
sizing. Um so these things are
critically important.
>> Mhm. Um
so speaking of AI, I just overheard Paul
Tudor Jones speaking to somebody on
Bloomberg saying uh you know, maybe AI
might be developing into a small bubble,
but it's not a giant headache. How are
you looking at all this bubble chatter,
um high valuation, concentrated markets?
Uh this seems to be part of the wall of
worry that markets are are climbing.
What's your perspective on this? I mean,
if Paul said it, it must be right, so.
Um
>> You could do worse than following Paul
Tudor Jones. That's right. That's right.
Um I mean, look, is is it a bubble? Is
it I
Obviously, it's it's real. It's going to
be impactful. It it's you know, it's
going to be enormously important. It's
going to reshape how we do so many so
many things, uh for sure. Is there
excess in certain areas related to it?
Like there has to be, uh for sure.
Um I think again, I think it comes down
to risk management first and fore- you
know, assuming you want to set up a
balanced book, it comes down to risk
management first and foremost.
Um and if you don't, if you just want to
play it from a thematic standpoint,
again, it also comes down to risk
management just from a sizing
standpoint. You need to size it to be
able to handle the inherent vol-
volatility of it. Um but
is it rich? Well, of course, it's rich.
Is it a bubble? I I I don't know. I I
I'm not the best one I don't remember
but it certainly is real. It's certainly
going to revolutionize and change our
lives. I I every time someone asks me
about it, I I like to remind them
uh Greenspan's irrational exuberance
speech was '96. He still had a long way
to go before that really became a
bubble. But also look look at you know
we're talking about
you know dot com right? So I mean as a
little bit of your you know your model
and your playbook right? So I mean
obviously Amazon came out of that but
there's a lot you know pets.com
you know dating myself but you know and
I have
>> Metromedia fiber Juniper network on my
desk you know like it's going to be when
it it's going to be winners and losers
and and
it is extremely important extremely
powerful but it's not going to lift all
boats at all all times so you need to be
selective and you need to size it right.
Huh make makes great sense. Last
question before we get to our favorite
questions. What do you think hedge fund
managers investors are not talking about
but really should be? What what topics
assets policies are getting overlooked
but shouldn't?
Um well I mentioned complacency a little
bit just because where we are in the
cycle but let maybe I if it's okay I'll
take it in a different direction to say
like it's more of a misnomer about the
hedge fund industry which is if that's
okay it's a little little different.
So I like one thing I would say that's
that's frustrating I think a lot of
people get wrong is they look at the
hedge fund industry as an asset class
and what I mean by that is if you have
an asset class then
you know everything in an asset class
should be more or less you know highly
correlated to each other right? It's the
same it's the same thing and
if you take the 10,000 or so hedge funds
that are out there the correlation the
cross correlation pairwise correlation
is is something like point point two or
point two five.
>> No way near one. It's nowhere near one
right? So what you really have is a
collection of strategies a collection of
sub strategies importantly the
characteristics of those strategies are
just vastly different from each other in
many cases.
Um and the way you use them in a
portfolio is vastly different. So when
people think about the hedge fund
industry and they're then and they're
looking at like a hedge fund benchmark,
which is or you know, like 10,000 funds
cobbled together,
often times they look at it and they're
like, well, I don't I don't know what to
make of this. It has an okay return and
an okay volatility with okay
characteristics. Maybe I don't need it.
And it's the right conclusion to the
wrong answer, right? And and and um
Oh, I'm sorry. The right conclusion from
the wrong question, right? And and
like again, the observation is correct,
but really the question is can I look at
subsets of this industry that are deeply
valuable rather than just looking at the
whole thing as a whole? And we would
strongly suggest that if people are just
looking at the aggregate industry,
um they're missing the point that
beneath that there are
strategies and sub strategies and
certainly managers that are adding
enormous enormous value that's being
overlooked by, you know, someone who's
plugging the average into an optimizer.
>> I'm so glad you said that because
over the course of 25-30 years, I've
watched the hedge fund industry change
so dramatically and my own views on it
have evolved. It's very easy to look at
a broad index and say, "Gee, this is
expensive and doesn't generate great
returns." But again, depending on where
you want to draw the line, top quartile,
top decile, when you look at the top
performing funds, there is genuine alpha
generation.
>> Yeah, for sure. And interestingly, like
if if we would have met, you know, 25
years ago, 15 years ago, like I would
have said the same thing is that like I
I'm not here to say the hedge fund
industry as a whole
is such a tremendous value proposition.
Like that was never the thesis, you
know, the thesis is more are there 100
or 200 managers out there that are
adding enormous value? Yes, and you
know, can through great due diligence I
can myself and other people find them if
they if they spend the time and do a
great job. Yes, and is that tremendously
value in portfolios? Yes, you know, but
it's not about the hedge fund industry
as a whole and the averages are going to
knock the lights out. Jim Jim Chanos um
has this quota of
He says, you know, when he started out
in the late '80s, early '90s, there were
a couple hundred hedge funds and they
all generated alpha. Today, there's
11,000 hedge funds and it's the same 200
hedge funds generating alpha. Which do
you know, there's a lot of truth to
Sturgeon's law. There's a lot of truth
to 90% of everything is not great. Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know if it's the same 200,
but
>> he said the same number, not necessarily
the same funds. They come and go. Yeah,
look, it it's a it's an industry and an
asset class and a
a fee structure that attracts a lot of
people, but
and and you know, and and and many of
them deserve that fee structure and many
of them are great, but yeah, they you
know, obviously you need to be
selective. Absolutely. All right, let's
jump to our favorite questions that we
ask all of our guests starting with tell
us about your mentors who helped shape
your career.
Sure, I think
So, two two come to mind. I mean, if I
go back really, you know, back to high
school and I'm forgetting I'm forgetting
his name. It's my wrestling coach. You
know, my wrestling coach who was my
economics professor and and this is when
I first started getting I swear to God,
I knew you were going to say that.
interested in in investments and started
reading um
you know,
I don't know, something like the classic
books from from way back way back when.
One up on Wall Street, Reminiscences of
a Stock Trader, you know.
And he was the one I kind of encouraged
and we actually played this game at the
end of the year, which was like a stock
market game and I actually found an
arbitrage and we made more money than
anyone had ever made, you know. And he's
like, you know, that's kind of like real
life finance. You should, you know, if
you Is that interest you you should
exploit. So I I I credit him for kind of
pushing, helping push me in in that
direction. And then
from a career standpoint, I I mentioned
Joel Katzman, um you know, who hired me
to, you know, start the business with
him. And yeah, he was really
instrumental. I mean, um
one of the things I I don't think we
spend as much time, but like skepticism
is really important. Uh I'm a deeply
skeptical person. I think it helps you
navigate things. It's one of the pearls
of wisdom. Joel Uh be a skeptic,
approach due diligence from the
perspective where does this break?
>> Where it Where does it break? Yeah. And
I mean, it's like approaching due
diligence, I I give an analogy of like
thinking about a balance sheet where
people again, behavioral
biases, you you you you know, too many
people say, approach it from the asset
side. How much can I make? What's the
story? Da da You need to approach it
from the liability side. Like, what can
go wrong with this manager? What can go
wrong with this strategy? Where does it
break? And then turn to the asset side
and effectively say, am I getting
compensated for for that, right? And you
could teach people some of that, but
part of it has to be innate as well.
Like, you need to be an innate skeptic,
maybe.
So, any case, Joel, you know, Joel I
think shared my skepticism for sure. He
certainly taught me a lot about the
business and and you know, running a
business. So, um yeah, you know, props
to Joel. Hm. Uh let's talk about books
since you mentioned some books. What are
some of your favorites? What are you
reading currently? Yeah, so books, so I
have a I So, we invest with around 120
hedge funds and
>> you're reading.
>> majority of what I'm reading is
their letters, their research, you know,
my my analyst research and that's the
very, you know, that's the vast majority
and then like Michael Cembalest does
great work.
You know, real really good work. So, I
have to say that's consuming the vast
majority of my time. The last The only
thing that stands out is a book um
What is it? Uh Speak like Churchill and
Stand Like Lincoln that
my old boss Jamie Dimon gave to me which
is about public speaking uh which is
actually really good and insightful.
Like easy easy read book that
>> Speak like Churchill, Stand Like
Lincoln.
>> Yeah. And it's a real real easy read to,
you know, just some like uh reinforcing
some
good
lessons of of uh public speaking. You
mentioned Michael Cembalest. So, I
consume his regular output and then the
JP Morgan Quarterly Guide to the Markets
is just a spectacular
spectacular resource.
Really really find it amazing. Let's
Let's talk about what's keeping you
entertained these days. Are you watching
or listening to anything
interesting? Uh like Netflix and you
know So,
uh
yeah. Well, I So, I have a 5 and 1/2
year old and so she's she's uh
dominating my the Netflix account. Uh
usually it's the K-pop Demon Hunters.
It's
>> That's the number one thing on Netflix
now?
>> going to say I don't know if you know
what that is.
>> Oh,
every time I'm searching for anything, I
put it on for 30 seconds and my wife is,
"What are we watching? Can you take
this?"
>> Yeah. So, unfortunately it's it's uh a
little it's it's a little too much of
K-pop Demon Hunters. But,
you know, away from away from work uh I
like wine. So, it's probably some
podcasts or or related to wine just to
when I'm not reading the you know, or
the the margin notes. So, but there's a
there's a great one called Wine with
Jimmy.
Which is
uh Wine with Jimmy?
>> If you want to do a deep dive on wine,
>> that's that's I literally just bought um
the I forgot the name of it, but
during Amazon Prime, it was on my wish
list and it was like 98 bucks and it
showed up for 30 bucks the 30 bucks the
um Atlas guide to wine around the world.
>> a fat book. Fat and I'm like, all right,
that's absolutely worth having on the on
the dry bar, so
>> you have to read it. You look you look
look good. Look you look good.
Absolutely. It's more of a
reference guide, but give us some of
your favorite wines. If you're not going
to give us more books, give us some
wines. What do you like What do you
drink? What do you like? Well, this is I
mean I like I like red more than white.
I like you know, a I don't know a
like a Barolo, so
a tan a nice tannic red.
Uh-huh. a red wine. So I yeah, I drink
Barolos, Tempranillo.
>> So we're always looking for a house
wine. Uh-huh. Just like something
reasonable that you could pop open
anytime.
This this um
Intrigue Natalie Vargas about a $20
bottle and it drinks like a $50 bottle.
>> Nice. Finding those values. What Where's
it from? Um Italy. Okay.
>> But you they only like it's a small
winery. They make you know, a few
thousand cases. You can't get Like I'll
get a case and that's it. It's you're
done till next year.
>> We'll We'll swap great value wines after
after lunch.
>> Um there there was um another one called
Xantos that was a Meritage. X A N T H O
S Okay. And the 2017 was spectacular.
You can't find any It was like a $15
bottle of wine drank like a $50 bottle
of wine. I I don't feel like I have a
palette to go much beyond that. Like all
right, I appreciate
>> Listen, if you could find $20 bottles of
wine that drink like $60 wine, but you
know. My my
>> a I'm forgetting the name, but I have a
Sangiovese like that which I found at
one of the wine you know, you you you go
to these like wine tasting events, but
you you go around and you could taste a
bunch of them, right?
>> It could be blind, but this is like a
James Suckling one where you you taste
all different types of wines and um
and then you you know you you you I
don't know, for me I take pictures of
the ones I like and then you go back
and then you look it up and some of them
are like $150 and you're like, "Oh, I
didn't find anything." And then you you
know, you see one that's like 20 bucks
and you're like, "Oh, I maybe I maybe I
found the the the the jewel." Right.
>> Um you it's easy to get disappointed in
a $150 bottle of wine and a $20 I it's
um But there's a lot of great wine out
there.
>> And and then you go to Italy and you sit
at a cafe and you get an $8 carafe and
it's the best thing you've had. Right.
It's it's just so crazy trying to figure
figure that out. Um so, our final two
questions, what sort of advice would you
give to a recent college grad interested
in a career in either investing or hedge
funds or alternatives?
Yeah, so um I mean first, you know, and
I guess it's it's cliche, but like the
like
do what you love thing is so
real and valuable, but I think you have
to like find what you love first. Like
when you're when you're 20 years old, I
don't know that anyone
>> big world. Yeah, like has a great vision
on it. I I would say like trust your
instinct, you know, so like it's obvious
to me today why I'm doing what I'm
doing. It's like I this is
I don't know. I'm I'm I'm skeptical, I'm
structured, I'm creative, I'm like
curious, like it makes sense today. It
didn't make sense completely at the
time, but like you follow your instinct,
you're like, "Oh, I I love to do this."
So I'm working on the weekend every week
because like this really intrigues me
and it's interesting and like you know,
they they I don't know. They they could
not pay me and I'm still doing this,
right? So like I think being true to
yourself and really exploring like what
makes you happy, what makes you and
know, intrigued, what really makes you
dive deep on things. And then continue
to lean in and continue to pursue and
learn learn more and more. Um maybe the
second part of it is just be a student
of history. So, whether you are So, I
like baseball and you know, I think like
when I was young like how much I learned
about the you know, Ty Cobbs and
DiMaggio and Ruth's and everybody. Like
I think if you're a baseball player like
you should know the history. If you're
going to the hedge fund industry like
you should know
the history. When I say David Askin, you
know, you should know who that is, you
know? So, like
take the time to understand the history
cuz it it it it I mean, a number of
reasons. One, it gives you contacts. But
two, like the mistakes and the
opportunities often, you know, often
rhyme with each other, right? So, like
how do you like investing in 2020 March
turns out it looked a lot like 2018,
2008.
Um 1998, like there were elements that
are very very similar.
And being a student of history helps you
navigate much better in the future. Hm.
To to say the say the very least. Final
question. What do you know about the
world of investing and hedge funds today
that would have been useful back in 1994
when you were first launching JP Morgan
Alternative Asset Management?
>> wait a minute. I mean, there was no
internet, right? So, I mean,
So, back in 1995, I mean, I I don't
know, you know, like you we knew a
fraction, we knew 5% of what we knew
today, but it was 50% more than next
person
knew, right? So,
I mean, it's all about it's all about
getting, you know, it's all about
getting an edge and continue to reinvent
yourself. I think the biggest the
biggest lessons learned for you know,
for us, but for the industry
is and what I would have taken back if I
could is just the the depth of
understanding on financing.
So, you know, in in financing
agreements, right? Like uh prime broker
agreements and term and triggers and all
all sorts of things that have caused
problems over the years. Mhm. Um if you
could take that one, you know, and it
and it's caused a lot of, you know, pain
historically from time to time. And if
you had that knowledge and you pull that
back to 1995,
wow, you would be able to,
you know, navigate near seamlessly
um across the industry in a way that,
you know, was much bumpier for everybody
along the way.
Paul, thank you. This has been
absolutely fascinating and thank you for
being so generous with your time. We
have been speaking with Paul Zumo. He's
chief investment officer at JP Morgan
Alternative Asset Management. If you
enjoy this conversation, well, check out
any of the 600 we've done over the past
12 years. You can find those at Spotify,
iTunes, Bloomberg, YouTube, wherever you
find your favorite podcasts. And be sure
and check out my new book, How Not to
Invest, the ideas, numbers, and
behaviors that destroy wealth, and how
to avoid them,
uh wherever you buy your favorite books.
I would be remiss if I did not thank the
crack team that helps put these
conversations together each week. Alexis
Noriega is my video producer. Anna Luke
is my regular producer. Sage Bealman is
the head of podcast here at Bloomberg.
Sean Russo is my researcher.
I'm Barry Ritholtz. You've been
listening to Masters in Business on
Bloomberg Radio.